README.md, before:

# Full FIIGNET Pipeline 

## Starting Requirements 
Cloning the Repo:
`git clone https://github.com/EdgarRob/FIIGNET` 

Downloads all Requirements:
`pip install -r requirements.txt` 

## Running Part 1 of Pipeline (No Strong GPU Required)

### To Run the ENTIRE Part 1 Process:
1. Open `run_all.py` and change corresponding directories to your own (inputs and outputs) 
2. Run command:
`python run_all.py --(model_name) --(disease_type)`

### Where available model names and disease types are as follows: 
Model Names:
1. GAN (NVIDIA's StyleGAN to generate more abstract fish) 
`--gan`
2. Stable Diffusion (To generate more realistic fish)
`--stable_diffusion`
3. CVAE 
`--cvae`
4. FIIGNET 
`--fiignet`

Diseases:
1. Ich (White Spot Disease) 
`--ich`
2. Red Spot Disease 
`--red_spot`

## To Run Parts Manually: 

1. ### Yolo Processing  
Processes input directory of images and outputs the corresponding YOLO output with red box around fish in a given image or video. Note that height and width are optional arguments if you would like to customize output size, though this may affect YOLO performance greatly. 

To run the command: 
`make yolo input_path="path_to_input" weights="path_to_weights" height="?" width="?"`

2. ### Yolo Segmentation  
Processes yolo image same way as previous command but segments the red YOLO boxes into separate images for each fish in a given image or video. Height and width are optional parameters. 

To run the command:
`make segment input_path="path_to_input" weights="path_to_weights" height="?" width="?" output_path="path_to_output"`

3. ### Image Enhancer 
Processes the image to potentially enhance the quality. Uses methods/techniques such as the gaussian filter, unsharpen mask, denoising, Savitsky-Golay filter, to try to improve any low resolution images passed through or previously segmented. 

To run the command:
`make enhance input_dir="/path/to/input" output_dir="/path/to/output"`

4. ### ESRGAN Enhancer
Processes the image using an ESRGAN (Enhanced Super-Resolution Generative Adversarial Network) to enhance the quality of the image by filling in any details of the fish that may be off due to low resolution or quality.

Clone the A-ESRGAN Repo:
`git clone https://github.com/stroking-fishes-ml-corp/A-ESRGAN`

Move into this Repo:
`mv A-ESRGAN FIIGNET`

To run the command:
`make esrgan input_dir="/path/to/input" output_dir="/path/to/output"`

## Running Part 2 of Pipeline (Strong GPU Required)  

TBD

## Running Part 3 of Pipeline (No Strong GPU Required)

1. ### Training with Real Images or GANs 
Trains a model using FastAI to create a classification model based on how images are separated by folder in the input directory. Will train a model that can predict what type of disease a given real picture or GAN fish has.

To run the command:
`make train input_path="/path/to/input" output_path="/path/to/output"`

2. ### Predicting with Real Images or GANs 
Performs predictions using the trained model with FastAI to predict what type of disease a given real picture or GAN fish has.

To run the command:
`make predict input_image="/path/to/input/image.jpg" learner="/path/to/learner.pkl"`

Commit message:

Adding resize info and small changes

README.md, after:

# Full FIIGNET Pipeline 

## Starting Requirements 
Cloning the Repo:
`git clone https://github.com/EdgarRob/FIIGNET` 

Downloads all Requirements:
`pip install -r requirements.txt` 

## Running Part 1 of Pipeline (No Strong GPU Required)

### To Run the ENTIRE Part 1 Process:
1. Open `run_all.py` and change corresponding directories to your own (inputs and outputs) 
2. Run command:
`python run_all.py --(model_name) --(disease_type)`

### Where available model names and disease types are as follows: 
Model Names:
1. GAN (NVIDIA's StyleGAN to generate more abstract fish) 
`--gan`
2. Stable Diffusion (To generate more realistic fish)
`--stable_diffusion`
3. CVAE (Conditional Variational Auto Encoder)
`--cvae`
4. FIIGNET (Fish Illness Image Generator Network)
`--fiignet`

Diseases:
1. Ich (White Spot Disease) 
`--ich`
2. Red Spot Disease 
`--red_spot`

## To Run Parts Manually: 

1. ### Image Resizing 
Resizes a directory of images and outputs the given specified height and width dimensions. Used to allow the YOLO model to make better decisions and normalize images before processing. Note that height and width are optional, but default is 1980x1080.

To run the command:
`make resize input_path="path_to_input" output_path="path_to_output" width="?" height="?"`

2. ### Yolo Processing  
Processes input directory of images and outputs the corresponding YOLO output with red box around fish in a given image or video. Note that height and width are optional arguments if you would like to customize output size, though this may affect YOLO performance greatly. 

To run the command: 
`make yolo input_path="path_to_input" weights="path_to_weights" height="?" width="?"`

3. ### Yolo Segmentation  
Processes yolo image same way as previous command but segments the red YOLO boxes into separate images for each fish in a given image or video. Height and width are optional parameters. 

To run the command:
`make segment input_path="path_to_input" weights="path_to_weights" height="?" width="?" output_path="path_to_output"`

4. ### Image Enhancer 
Processes the image to potentially enhance the quality. Uses methods/techniques such as the gaussian filter, unsharpen mask, denoising, Savitsky-Golay filter, to try to improve any low resolution images passed through or previously segmented. 

To run the command:
`make enhance input_dir="/path/to/input" output_dir="/path/to/output"`

5. ### ESRGAN Enhancer
Processes the image using an ESRGAN (Enhanced Super-Resolution Generative Adversarial Network) to enhance the quality of the image by filling in any details of the fish that may be off due to low resolution or quality.

Clone the A-ESRGAN Repo:
`git clone https://github.com/stroking-fishes-ml-corp/A-ESRGAN`

Move into this Repo:
`mv A-ESRGAN FIIGNET`

To run the command:
`make esrgan input_dir="/path/to/input" output_dir="/path/to/output"`

## Running Part 2 of Pipeline (Strong GPU Required)  

TBD

## Running Part 3 of Pipeline (No Strong GPU Required)

1. ### Training with Real Images or GANs 
Trains a model using FastAI to create a classification model based on how images are separated by folder in the input directory. Will train a model that can predict what type of disease a given real picture or GAN fish has.

To run the command:
`make train input_path="/path/to/input" output_path="/path/to/output"`

2. ### Predicting with Real Images or GANs 
Performs predictions using the trained model with FastAI to predict what type of disease a given real picture or GAN fish has.

To run the command:
`make predict input_image="/path/to/input/image.jpg" learner="/path/to/learner.pkl"`
